Dr.Larry Dossey has two antique clocks. "One fast, the other slow,
" says Dr. Dossey. "They remind me that my life is not ruled by clocks, 
that I can choose the time I live by. 

How a person thinks about time can kill him, according to Dossey, a pioneer
in the emerging science of chronobiology, the study of how time interacts
life. One of the most common ills in our society, he says, is "time sickness", 
a sense of time pressure and hurry that causes anxiety and tension. These 
symptoms can contribute to heart disease and strokes, two of our most 
frequent causes of death.

Dossey has discovered that these and other stress-induced ills can often be
successfully treated by using simple techniques to change how a person thinks 
about time. 

Dr. Dossey became interested in time and health when he noticed how many 
patients insisted on having watches with them in the hospital, even though they
had no schedules to keep. They were all time addicts, taught since childhood to 
schedule their lives by society's clock, and all felt lost without the security 
of a timepiece. Time seens to rule our live. Time is money, to be saved and spent
wisely, not wassted or lost.

Almost all living things in our world carry their own biological clocks synchronized 
with the rhythms of nature. A crab can sense when the tide is about to change. A 
mouse wakes when night nears. A squirrel knows when to prepare for its long winter 
nap. These living clocks are not accurate in any robot-like mechanical sense. They
adjust to changes in the environment.

Light is the most powerful synchronizer in most living things. But in humans there is 
another powerful synchroniser: other people. Pioneering studies in Germany reported 
that when people were put together in groups isolated from external time cues of light, 
temperature and humidity, their own complex internal timekeeping rhythms became 
desynchronized; then they resynchronized in unison. Even body temperatures started to 
rise and fall together , a sign that subtle biochemical changese in each body were 
now happening together. The experiments may have discovered one of the mysterious forces
that  reshape individuals into members of a team, cult or mob.
